# retinal-vessel-extraction-laplacian-pyramid-anisotropic-diffusion

Retinal fundus images are commonly studied by ophthalmologists and bio-medical researchers to diagnose or predict the onset of various systemic diseases. These fundus images are examined for anomalies in order to make accurate diagnoses. Since the process of manually inspecting and annotating retinal blood vessels from fundus images is time consuming and relies entirely on the skill and experience of the human experts, computer-aided approaches are progressively becoming better alternatives, thus creating a growing need for more efficient retinal vessel segmentation algorithms. These computer-aided approaches could be used for clinical studies, pre-screening the patient for signs of systemic diseases and for developing effective treatment plans. In this thesis, we propose a framework for extracting retinal blood vessels from fundus images based on their multi-layer, multi-scale Laplacian Pyramid representation. The algorithm is tested on two publicly available datasets, the High-Resolution Fundus dataset and the DRIVE dataset. Additionally, we provide a robust pre-processing pipeline for enhancing retinal vessel features in fundus images. We evaluate the performance of the technique by comparing the segmentation results with a manually annotated ground-truth image, based on performance metrics like accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, precision and recall. The framework is capable of detecting and extracting both, thin and coarse retinal vessels and is competitive with other state-of-the-art techniques in terms of computation time, quality of segmentation, accuracy, sensitivity and specificity. It is robust to parameter changes and is capable of handling noise in the image without blurring the edges of retinal vessels. Our proposed technique shows an average accuracy of 95.85%, sensitivity of 79.33%, and specificity of 97.54% on High-Resolution Fundus images of healthy patients.



